**I’m not your Guinea Pig.**

As I was thinking about the Covid-19 along with everything else wrong in American society, supposedly we are close to having a vaccine. With this current administration, we all know that’s bullshit because they never took this virus seriously in the beginning and every day there is a lie coming out of the White House. In fact, no one seems to know the truth about this virus. 

The only one that seems to have any common sense is Dr. Anthony Fauci but now all of a sudden, with the help of Bill Gates (that’s right, the same Bill Gates from Microsoft) there are claims that there is a vaccine. And to make this even more dumb, this MFer is saying that they need “People of Color” for testing. So let’s look at this: we have an administration that never took charge of the situation when they found out about it, we have a top expert in infectious disease who is not saying anything, and there is a computer nerd billionaire who is not even affiliated with the medical field (who never graduated from college, btw) who is helping to develop a vaccine that he wants to test on Black people. Sounds like another  modern-day Tuskegee Institute Experiment if you ask me. 

Let’s look at the history of why this sounds messed up. For so long, Black People have been used as guinea pigs for everything. We have been experimented on mentally, physically, and emotionally. For some strange reason, when there is some sort of virus or pandemic, it always seems not only to affect people of color, but also, we are the first that they want to test treatments on (whether the treatments have been fully tested or not). Further, there is also usually no incentive for people to do so. 

Once again, in this instance of Covid-19, Black and Brown people are disproportionately affected by illness and infection—due largely to the fact of the conditions that many of us live with, such as making up the largest cohort of essential and frontline workers as well as us often lacking access to quality medical care. To make matters worse, we have presidents of HBCUs telling other Black people that we need to volunteer ourselves for this vaccine because as a demographic, we account for the largest percentage of cases. So I guess if we’re not going to listen to the white man, we now have “educated” Black men telling us what we’re supposed to do. All of this seems unfortunate. 

The days of using Black people for guinea pigs (like Henrietta Lacks and Tuskegee) are over. My father has always told me that if white people don’t do something, then there must be something wrong. As I look at this, and the fact that they aren’t pushing a vaccine on white people, then I know something is wrong. Usually when the pharmaceutical industry is trying to find a cure for something, the pipeline takes at least 18-24 months. In this case, however, many standards and best practices have been dropped in order to fast track a vaccine. This is unacceptable. So the question is, in 2020, what would make Black people want to be specimens for these trials, especially with the history of our mistreatment when it comes to science? Because of greater access to information, education, and technology we are now fully aware of how things turn out. With all that being said, this is why I am not interested in being science's guinea pig. 

But on another (related) note, one of the things that this course has made me consider is how the Digital Humanities could be leveraged as a way to address systemic racism in this country. In particular, I have wondered if it might be used to shine a spotlight on inequities in health care when it comes to Black Americans, so when I found this current DH project out of Purdue University, I was intrigued. [Covid Black](https://www.cla.purdue.edu/academic/sis/p/african-american/covid-black/index.html) is a self-described task force on Black Health and Data and attempts to do the following: 

1.	To recover and amplify the voices of Black people and the Black experience in the age of COVID-19 and beyond, by creating digital projects that reflect how the Black community understands, uses, and responds to news coverage, social media exchange, information transmission and prevention reporting, day-to-day survival techniques, and inequity in healthcare.

2.	To use, analyze and critique data collection methods which compile, preserve, curate, and disseminate statistical information and accounts on COVID-19 and other health-related illnesses’ impact on Black people. The sources of our data collection include, but are not limited to, oral history interviews, social media, research studies, news articles, and health statistics.

3.	To deploy experimental, analytical, computational, and design capabilities in the areas of computer science and technology within the Black Digital Humanities. To revitalize Black Studies’ vital connections and relationships with Black Diasporic communities that can achieve positive change.

I have spent some time poking around on the website and though some of their [current projects](https://www.cla.purdue.edu/academic/sis/p/african-american/covid-black/projects.html) are Covid-specific, such as “Homegoing: A Digital Memorial”  which attempts to visualize the impact of Covid-19 on Black people in America, the scope of their mission is much broader and endeavors to capture the overall experience of our community when it comes to access to both preventative health care and treatments. I look forward to continuing my research in this area as it is exciting to see the ways in which DH can be harnessed for use to address social problems and inequality.

