Redlining, Gentrification, Racism, and Ethical Data 

I went home to Charlotte three weeks ago and visited SouthEnd, a neighborhood I used to live in back in the early 2000s. It’s hard to believe I once called that area home because I barely recognized it anymore. When I lived there, it was a predominately Black neighborhood comprised of mostly single-family homes, local restaurants, and a handful of apartment buildings. Though it was close to Uptown Charlotte, it was still an affordable place to live. People knew each other and it was a close-knit community. The SouthEnd of today is nothing like this. The neighborhood has been pretty much demolished and rebuilt with luxury homes and condos, breweries, and high rise office buildings. While I do realize that things aren’t supposed to remain the same, it is still kind of sad when something that means so much to you becomes almost unrecognizable. In addition to these feelings of loss though, there is a part of me that is angry that gentrification has once again pushed lifelong residents out of a neighborhood they built—and in some respects, I blame data collection and reporting for this.

I have long known that the ways in which data is used—especially when it has to do with Black people—is biased. Studies show that the algorithms that collect everything from [policing data] (https://www.technologyreview.com/2020/07/17/1005396/predictive-policing-algorithms-racist-dismantled-machine-learning-bias-criminal-justice/) to [healthcare data] (https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-019-03228-6)  are stacked against Black people because as Safiya Umoja Noble points out in her book [Algorithms of Oppression] (https://www.amazon.com/Algorithms-Oppression-Search-Engines-Reinforce/dp/1479837245), they often reinforce racial stereotypes. As I dig into my work in my Digital Humanities class this semester, I have been thinking more and more about how data is only as reliable as the way it is collected, meaning, that the humans deciding how to conduct searches and collect information need to be thinking in an inclusive way so no one group is penalized.

So what does all this have to do with gentrification? Well, [one of my recent course readings] (https://data-feminism.mitpress.mit.edu/pub/ei7cogfn/release/2) took up this subject in its discussion about redlining maps. One of the things the article discussed was a case study from Detroit where the authors described how white men from the Detroit Board of Commerce surveyed underprivileged neighborhoods and even lied about some of the numbers in order to use this information for their own benefit, that is, financial gain. 

This wasn’t a practice exclusive to Detroit though. In fact, it happened all across the country—and even in Charlotte, NC.  We all know that back in the “good old days” all neighborhoods were segregated. During this period, Blacks were forced to do and provide for their own because white people did not want to intermingle at all—even if it meant more money in their pockets. As Black folks began to flourish, they started looking out in other areas to buy homes and many of those areas were white areas. The majority of these neighborhoods were either located inside the city or in suburbs with close proximity to downtown. Once Blacks started moving into some of these white neighborhoods, many white families started moving out into the country or suburbs that were farther out. This phenomenon was known as the “white flight.” Eventually, these formerly white neighborhoods started to change into a place where the new Black middle class could prosper by buying up more property and opening up businesses to serve its community. As time went on and these Black areas became more crowded, once again some Black folks wanted to move farther out from urban centers in search of more space and opportunity. In turn, white people started a reverse migration and began to move back into cities. This is what is now happening in my former SouthEnd Charlotte neighborhood.

Redlining as a practice has been yet another example of systemic racism baked into the American economic system. Not only has it served as a way to segregate communities by keeping white neighborhoods white and pushing other groups to a town’s outskirts (often to less desirable sections of a town where there is limited access to basic amenities like public transit, grocery stores, and other essentials), but it has also been a sneaky way by which properties in these sections have been undervalued in their real estate appraisals. Because of the low real estate appraisals, two things have occurred: first, less desirable businesses have based their operations in these neighborhoods because of the low property taxes and second, when real estate developers have decided to “invest” in a minority neighborhood, they are not only able to acquire property below market value, but they also typically have access to “redevelopment funds” by local municipalities meaning they are profiting while their gentrification of a neighborhood means that its original residents are pushed out, unable to afford rising rents and property taxes.

So all this begs the question: how can DH help eliminate (or at least stem the tides of) practices like redlining or unethical gentrification? Well, I don’t pretend to have all the answers, but I wonder if DH initiatives like Margaret Mitchell’s “model cards” and other attempts to humanize data collection are a good place to start.
