**Today is the Great Nat Turner's Birthday.**

With everything that has been going on in the last 6 months with the killings of Breonna Taylor, George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, just to name a few along with the pandemic which has affected people of color at a much higher and no one gives a damn, I can feel his frustration about being oppressed.  

Of course, Black People aren’t slaves (in chains and etc.) but to a degree we are still in the same situation but in a different time. For example, we have to worry about our lives if are pulled over at a traffic light, “Karens” calling authorities on any Black person just for being Black and a President/Congress who won’t call out “white supremacy” just to keep their job.  

Police are still killing Black people and we are still being treated unfairly and not getting a fair shake at anything.  

With all this said Black people everywhere are fed up and tired of being mistreated.  This also makes me look at all this “peaceful” protesting.  At what point does “action” need to take place to get things done? America has long been a country of violence.  Throughout history, violence has been a common denominator of getting things done even if we have nothing to do with it.  Colonizers came over and slaughtered the Native Americans, these same people fought their mother country, England, to be free and let’s not forget slavery. Bringing people here from another country against their will to build this country for free.  

So, you may ask, what the hell does this have to with Nat Turner’s birthday?  With that said, let me give you some history about Nat Turner. He was born enslaved on October 2, 1800 in Virginia. To my knowledge, not much is known about his father but his mother was a strongminded African woman who taught him to rebel.  He was sold 3 times during his childhood.  He was also taught to read by his slave master’s son as well as instructed in writing and religion in which he later became a preacher.  He became leader of the enslaved Africans on his plantation.  Turner was a deeply religious man and spent time reading the Bible and praying. As he grew older, he worked on a number of different plantations.

 On August 21, 1831, Nat Turner and his supporters led a rebellion against white slave owners which his own slave owners (family) were killed.  This rebellion put fear in white people living in the South. Over 50 white were killed during this rebellion and is known as one of the bloodiest revolutionist.  Like many leaders who rebelled and believed to be close to God, he believed he was the chosen one to lead his people out of slavery.  The rebellion didn’t last long.  

 Turner and his supporters ended up meeting a mob of angry white men near the county seat and things changed.  Turner would fled and hid in the woods while between 100 to 200 black people were slaughtered.  He was later found and surrounded.  In his trial he pleaded not guilty because he believed he was called by God to do this.   He was found guilty and later hung. Nat Turner believed that slaves during this time should be free and did whatever it was necessary to make this happen.  His supporters believed in this theory as well. One could only imagine what would have happened if more people would have gotten involved and done whatever it take. 

 The fact that he recognized you have to use a forceful approach to get things done earns my respect. Sometimes peaceful demonstrations are only for looks to see how bad people really are or feel about things.  When people are getting beat, arrested and etc for a peaceful demonstration, to a degree it kind of makes the power at be look bad but in this climate we are in, it doesn’t.  Some of these violent acts are actually cheered on against the innocent and peaceful protestors because they are looked upon as agitators just like in the early years.  

In celebration of Nat Turner, we should look at him as a hero because of what he did and stood for. Yes, he killed white women and children in quest to free the slaves. In war, nothing is fair and America definitely can’t argue with that.  I personally admire him for his bravery to revolt and fight for his freedom. With the taking down of monuments of oppressors the last couple of months in this country, it’s time to put up statues of real American heroes who were actually for freedom.  For years we have celebrated these people for no reason and have overlooked the negative things that they have done. Nat Turner was an American hero.  He put his life on the line for the people and I’m sure he knew he would die in the process. 

Though all of the events leading up to Nat Turner’s revolt reside in the pre-digital era, sadly Black people are still bearing the burden of oppression through modern day slavery which often takes the form of systemic racism. We not only see explicit examples of racism and violence every day, but these more insidious forms of racism and bias are baked into the infrastructure of our country. One of the places where this is most prevalent is in the judicial system. 

The fact that proportionally more Black men are incarcerated does not accurately reflect criminal behavior, but rather can be attributed partially to the fact that criminal justice databases such as forensic DNA databases are not demographically representative. In fact, this is something discussed by Erin Murphy and Jun Tong in [a recent article for the California Law Review](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3477974).

Catherine D’Ignazio and Lauren Klein write about the manipulation of data and how “big data” projects like the Global Database of Events, Language, and Tone (GDELT) can be problematic because people assume that its scale (large) means that its collection of information is complete and accurate. The project in question (GDELT) aims to present data related to events around the world—suggesting that it provides a thorough account of what is happening on a global level through analysis of media reports. D’Ignazio and Klein argue that these projects should be regarded with some skepticism and even go so far as to call them “Big Dick Data,” which they describe as efforts that “ignore context, fetishize size, and inflate their technical and scientific capabilities. They also wonder whether that claims to the accuracy of these projects are intentional (as a way to secure more funding) or authentic. Some of these so-called big data projects include national databases that are not reliable sources of information.

This article (as well as current events) have prompted me to research what DH projects might address systemic racism or something more direct, like police violence against the Black Community or more generally, inequities within law enforcement. I am happy to report that I have found a few, such as [Mapping Police Violence](https://mappingpoliceviolence.org/); [The Stanford Open Policing Project](https://openpolicing.stanford.edu/) which presents data from the more than 50K daily traffic stops across the country and allows users to extract and sort data based on different features like age, sex, race, etc.; [Say Their Names](https://saytheirnames.io/); and others. Seeing these projects is inspiring because it makes me see some of the potential for DH work to shine light on injustices and hopefully to encourage people to take action to reform the current system.


