**Music Saved My Life** 

In my house growing up, music was always playing whether it was James Brown, James Cleveland (aka The King of Gospel Music), or even The Rolling Stones. I always knew that in some way, shape, or form, music would be my calling.  Throughout my childhood, I took organ and piano lessons, was in the band with the saxophone, and learned to play drums—but it wasn’t until I was older that I decided to take music more seriously. After a period of active duty in the military and earning my BA in English and then teaching HS English, I still felt the pull toward music. My first foray into the music world (as a job) was to become a DJ during the 90s. Being a DJ helped me learn about transitions, song patterns, rhythm and BPMs, and opened my mind to a lot more than I already knew. After DJ-ing for ten years, I wanted to learn more about the business side of music and how to promote concerts, work with artists, and more. The early 2000s is when I moved over into doing more promotions and marketing work for concerts, artists, and record labels. This work led me to working with some of the biggest artists in the world—whether it be through promoting their shows, leading their marketing efforts in B-City markets, and learning more about how to harness media (radio, print, TV) to market a record or a single. 

Though I shifted my focus to more of the management and marketing practices of music during this time, I noticed that the music business (and even the music itself) was changing due to technology. Not only was technology seeping into our marketing efforts (I was doing more digital advertising than ever) and data collection initiatives (to track record sales and event attendance), but it was also changing the way music was made (lots of autotune) and distributed (MP3 downloads and online streaming). It also was changing the way people approached DJing—as suddenly some would show up to provide the music for an event with just a laptop and no turntables. I had mixed feelings about this. While I know that change due to advances in technology is a part of moving forward, I worry sometimes about the rich history (especially pertaining to music) that might be left behind if there aren’t dedicated efforts to preserve it.

That’s why I was so excited to learn about the project that [Chicago’s Stony Island Arts Bank](https://rebuild-foundation.org/site/stony-island-arts-bank/) was working on to preserve the legacy of Frankie Knuckles, the Godfather of House Music. A couple of things: first, if you are not familiar with it, the Stony Island Arts Bank is a museum and cultural center celebrating African-American art and culture. The space is the brainchild of artist [Theaster Gates](https://www.theastergates.com/), who bought the former bankbuilding located in the South Side of Chicago in 2015 from the city for $1! 

Gates has acquired a number of important collections including the [Johnson Publishing Collection](https://rebuild-foundation.org/exhibition/a-johnson-publishing-story/) and my main interest—the complete vinyl collection of [Frankie Knuckles](http://thefkfoundation.org/). As a former DJ, a house music ), and a huge fan of Knuckles, this grabbed my interest. On my first visit to the museum in July of 2019, I was intrigued because they had just received a grant to begin digitizing the Knuckles’ vinyl collection. When I returned in January of this year to co-lead [a Wikipedia event focused on expanding coverage of House Music in the encyclopedia](https://rebuild-foundation.org/event/frankie-knuckles-and-friends-a-wikipedia-editathon/), I was even more excited to learn that the museum staff and its volunteers had made more progress on digitizing the collection and had even begun taking photos of album covers and Knuckles’ system of organizing his albums (using colored dot stickers).

My interest in going back to school to study Digital Humanities was already growing and I had planned to apply to graduate school. Part of my interest in DH was sparked by projects like Wikipedia, but also seeing the great opportunities that existed in the music space. Over the coming months, I started to scope out online music archives, like the [SF Disco Preservation Society's online archive](https://sfdps.org/) and its related projects. From this exploration, I realized that this was something I wanted to do—to bring together my musical expertise, my technological interests, and also my background in teaching (which I knew a graduate degree would allow me to return to). 

So here I am midway through my first semester of graduate school. I still plan to get my Ph.D. and maybe another graduate degree in music along the way, but I am focused on how to make my visions a reality, especially when it comes to building an online archive for the great Frankie Knuckles. In fact, one of my semester projects is to write a grant proposal for this project, which I am now calling “The House that Frankie Built.” I hope to partner with the Stony Island Arts Bank and others on this project in order to bring it to life. Reading Eun Seo Jo and Timnit Gebru’s article “Lessons from Archives: Strategies for Collecting Sociocultural Data in Machine Learning” has been a good background into getting me to think about best practices for archival work (even if it is online) and I look forward to getting started.

“Where rhythm is life and life is rhythm”- Warren G

Deuces.
