**Damn U, DH!**

Damn! What the hell am I going to do now? It’s March 12, 2020 at 10:30 pm. I just got word that the Governor of North Carolina has decided to close all live music venues due to the growing threat of Covid-19. As the weeks passed, I knew it was only going to get worse. And live music venues were my bread and butter—without them, my shows would be cancelled. After being immersed in the music industry for nearly 20 years, I was suddenly faced with a big question—what next? 

Though over the years I have dabbled in a variety of professional endeavors, from running large scale events for corporations, professional sports organizations, and nonprofits to teaching high school English (not to mention serving in the US Navy as a communications officer), I felt that I was at a crossroads. I had long planned to return to graduate school, but it never seemed like the right time. 

So here I am now in graduate school at Northeastern University, getting my Master’s in English with a concentration in Digital Humanities with the goal of bringing together my deep professional experience in the music industry together with the new skills and frameworks I am learning. Who knew that getting involved with the Wikipedia community a few years ago would have led me to this point. Fast forward to March 2019. I am in Berlin, Germany at a Wikipedia Strategy Summit. At the closing night party, guests gathered at a local club to socialize. The DJ played an eclectic set that reflected the crowd in attendance—over 700 people from more than 100 countries. 

As I surveyed the dance floor and saw people dancing enthusiastically (people that moments before had been huddled over laptops editing Wikipedia, I might add) I mentioned to another guest that I was surprised that the DJ knew the right music to play to such a diverse audience and that’s when I learned that the event organizers had crowdsourced song/genre recommendations via a Google Form weeks before. From that, the DJ had been able to extract some data and make some musical decisions—almost like a human Pandora or Spotify. That’s when I had a moment of epiphany. I had been doing this work for years—that is, serving as a real-life tastemaker in more than seven southeastern music markets—but leveraging technology to provide positive musical experiences to audiences was something I wanted to learn more about. 

Though I already considered myself relatively tech-savvy (my second degree was in Graphics and Multimedia Design), once I got involved with the Wikipedia world, I quickly started to see new ways that technology could be used to engage with the humanities and social sciences—whether through generating interactive maps and data visualizations or creating digital experiences for users. I knew then that there would be a bit of a learning curve and that would be something I needed to return to the classroom for.

Now I am almost two months in to my first semester of graduate school and though I may still have more questions than answers, I am steadily learning the right questions that I need to ask. While I am a seasoned end user of technology, I have spent a lot of time learning how to navigate some of the digital platforms (like GitHub and Discord) that we are using in class as they are new to me. It is a question from one of my recent readings in my Intro to Digital Humanities, however, that really got me thinking. [Benjamin M. Schmidt](https://benschmidt.org/) asks whether digital humanists need to understand algorithms in order to do their work and though I don’t plan to become a web developer or data scientist, I do think that yes, it is important to at least understand how to collect and interpret data—at least in a conceptual way.

I have also been thinking about various Digital Humanities projects that intersect with my main area of interest—music. There are some obvious ones that come to mind (like Pandora and Spotify) but there are also some others that I’ve come across that are interesting to me like the [Musical Geography Project](https://musicalgeography.org/). This project features a map of particular interest to me—one that charts [the geography of America’s music scenes](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2012-08-06/the-geography-of-america-s-music-scenes). Though this map is a bit out-of-date (it was created in 2012), much of its data still holds true. To create the map, Charlotta Mellander used Bureau of Labor statistics on the concentration of musicians in various cities in connection with U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis statistics that collect information on music industry business establishments.  After reading more about this project, I learned that it was created through MPI research, which is something I would like to learn more about.

I have much more to say about this topic, but I will end at this point and say that slowly but surely I am beginning to see ways that I can bridge together my past and present into future DH projects that will be both innovative and rewarding.
