##“I’m not your Guinea Pig.”##

As I was thinking about the Covid-19 along with everything else wrong in American society, supposedly we are close to having a vaccine. With this current administration, we all know that’s bullshit because they never took this virus seriously in the beginning and every day there is a lie coming out of the White House. In fact, no one seems to know the truth about this virus. 

The only one that seems to have any common sense is Dr. Anthony Fauci but now all of a sudden, with the help of Bill Gates (that’s right, the same Bill Gates from Microsoft) there are claims that there is a vaccine. And to make this even more dumb, this MFer is saying that they need “People of Color” for testing. So let’s look at this: we have an administration that never took charge of the situation when they found out about it, we have a top expert in infectious disease who is not saying anything, and there is a computer nerd billionaire who is not even affiliated with the medical field (who never graduated from college, btw) who is helping to develop a vaccine that he wants to test on Black people. Sounds like another  modern-day Tuskegee Institute Experiment if you ask me. 

Let’s look at the history of why this sounds messed up. For so long, Black People have been used as guinea pigs for everything. We have been experimented on mentally, physically, and emotionally. For some strange reason, when there is some sort of virus or pandemic, it always seems not only to affect people of color, but also, we are the first that they want to test treatments on (whether the treatments have been fully tested or not). Further, there is also usually no incentive for people to do so. 

Once again, in this instance of Covid-19, Black and Brown people are disproportionately affected by illness and infection—due largely to the fact of the conditions that many of us live with, such as making up the largest cohort of essential and frontline workers as well as us often lacking access to quality medical care. To make matters worse, we have presidents of HBCUs telling other Black people that we need to volunteer ourselves for this vaccine because as a demographic, we account for the largest percentage of cases. So I guess if we’re not going to listen to the white man, we now have “educated” Black men telling us what we’re supposed to do. All of this seems unfortunate. 

The days of using Black people for guinea pigs (like Henrietta Lacks and Tuskegee) are over. My father has always told me that if white people don’t do something, then there must be something wrong. As I look at this, and the fact that they aren’t pushing a vaccine on white people, then I know something is wrong. Usually when the pharmaceutical industry is trying to find a cure for something, the pipeline takes at least 18-24 months. In this case, however, many standards and best practices have been dropped in order to fast track a vaccine. This is unacceptable. So the question is, in 2020, what would make Black people want to be specimens for these trials, especially with the history of our mistreatment when it comes to science? Because of greater access to information, education, and technology we are now fully aware of how things turn out. With all that being said, this is why I am not interested in being your guinea pig. 
